Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So, last lecture we talked about where can you find and
drill down on potential customers that you can
interview if you're in a scenario where you are
pre-product or pre-launch.
So, the other side of the coin to this is
what do you do when you are post product?
Let's say you have some ideas for things to add
to a product you already have.
You have a feature list, you have a roadmap,
you have a backlog. The customer development framework
tells us that we need to get out of the building
and start talking to our customers,
but where do we find the customers?
Now, a lot of you at home are probably thinking
"Well, isn't this a little more obvious?"
And you're right, it is more obvious.
Presumably, if you're post product, you have a list of
customers, a list of free users, and potentially a
list of people that have demonstrated interest in your product.
Even if you're relatively new, you only
launched not that long ago, you'll still have what are called
"early evangelists," which are people that
use it as if it were a version for a polished product
and they just love it. Regardless of where you are
in this product development process,
there are customers you can interview. Now, the most
obvious thing is that, why don't you just go and look
at the list of customers and just go that route?
Now, you can do that.
You can just tap someone on the shoulder and say,
"Hey, I need the list of all the e-mails of all of our
users and let me contact them."
Well, there's two downsides to doing that.
One is that it comes off very spammy and it actually
can break your terms and agreements, so you need to
make sure that that's within the bounds of spam and
what's just not going to annoy the crap out of people.
The other thing is that you're going to have a harder
time getting people to talk to you just because
this is a cold email, this is as cold as it would get if
you're just e-mailing them because you saw their e-mail
on a list, it would be hard even to customize it for them.
So you can, by all means, just send out an e-mail blast
to your user base and you will get interviews that way.
But, in this lecture, we're going to focus on four ways
to get warm leads that will save you some time
with regards to finding them and getting them to talk to you,
and is probably going to get you better
customers to talk to. In general, some of the best
customers to talk to are ones that have already
pointed themselves out as people that are enthusiastic,
or interested, or have a problem with something
in your product. People that have opinions and people
that are invested in your product enough to have
one of those two emotions are going to give you a much
bigger bounty of information. Then, the first way
of going about this is by using your company's live chat feature.
Now, a lot of companies, startups, even large businesses use live chat systems. Live chat systems are exactly what they
sound like - you can chat with someone in the company live by clicking on a box, usually in the bottom right of your screen.
Whether it's Olark, or Tawk.to, or one of the
more complicated ones, like Intercom.io,
if you have them, then you have a wealth of information from which you can choose ideal customers to reach out to.
So, if you have a live chat system, great. Continue on.
Now, there's two ways of going about this - one is the passive
and one is the active. In the passive approach,
what you want to do is essentially go and ask to see
the chat logs from your customers, and what they're
saying, and what questions they're asking.
It's really interesting stuff on its own.
But what you can do is you can look at what people are saying and try to find individual people that meet your target demo.
Then, when you message them, you can
pull information from their chat log,
make it sound like a continuation of the conversation.
People are much more likely to respond to that
and you get plus points for customer service.
Now, the other approach is the more active version.
A lot of live chat systems - the vast majority of them -
have the functionality that allows them to force
themselves on your screen. So, you might have seen this before,
if you're ever on a web site and you have
something pop up as you go to another subpage,
and it usually says something like "Do you need help
finding something?" You say yes or no.
If you say yes, it automatically connects you.
If you have that functionality,
you can definitely find people that appear to be doing
things that you think would fit into your target
demo, or you can look for specific users when they
get online, or you can just do it at random.
When you force a conversation, then you can pop up,
you can talk to them, and go that route.
Alternatively, if you don't have that capability, that's fine.
A much simpler version of this active approach is
either to set in on the customer service live chat,
so if you're in a small organization, this is very easy,
or ask someone who is in customer service to, at the
very end of their chats, once they've solved the
problem, just simply ask them if they would be willing to talk to someone in a product management role for 10 minutes.
It's very similar to when you call the bank and they say "After your phone call, would you like to take a 5-minute survey?" Yes or no.
A lot of people say no but a lot of people say yes.
So don't ignore the live chat.
This is some potent stuff - these people have self-identified themselves as being engaged with your product.
The second treasure trove where you can go
to get people to interview is your blog.
Now, most companies have blogs. If you don't have a blog nowadays it's kind of the exception - it's kind of standard practice,
it seems like. So if you have a blog, a lot of blogs
allow commenting, so it's rather simple.
Look at the people who are commenting on your blog.
If you don't have a blog, look for people who are
commenting on your outside, external press.
Those people have something to say about your product.
They're probably users and also you have this
advantage: they want to be heard. Okay?
That's the reason why they're posting on your blog
to begin with. They have something to say.
No one post a comment that is entirely passive,
that says nothing. They always want to be heard.
And if you message those people, e-mail them and say,
"Would you like to talk for 10 minutes about the
product?" they will feel special and it will convert.
Now, a third area to consider are power users.
So, we previously established that you probably have
a list of all of your customers, and if your organization
even slightly knows what they're doing, they're probably
collecting information on each user, so all you
have to do is look specifically for power users.
Now, you can segment power users by a number of different things. You can look for them based off of frequency.
How often do they use your application?
And that's generally a very good metric.
People who are only casual about your product probably don't log in very often and they probably don't
use the features very often - these are very easy things to track,
I'd be very surprised if your organization was not tracking them.
You can also look for things like high engagement, and every organization has a different definition of engagement.
It could be buying things often, it could be sending messages
often, it could just be people that use it frequently
and message your own company often.
So don't neglect power users.
They are in general more informed about your product,
they spend more time using it, and here's the catch -
they're more invested in your product.
So if you say to them "Let's have a conversation about improving it," there's a very good chance they'll be interested in that.
And the last one is Twitter.
I love using Twitter for talking to customers
because it's fantastic for that.
It's just an online machine for conversations.
Twitter is a goldmine for reaching out
to these people, and it's really simple.
You guys probably have a Twitter account.
Just look at who is tweeting at you, who is replying,
who is liking, and who is sharing your posts.
Chances are they already follow you,
which means you can direct message them.
Those messages get answered almost all of the time.
So they've essentially self-identified themselves as saying,
"Hey, we like your product enough to spend
time talking about it or engaging with you."
They have their foot in the door,
they're probably going to talk to you.
Ok, guys, so those were four different ways that you,
within an organization, and with a pre-existing product,
can pick out customers who are most likely to respond to you and give you better information than if you picked someone at random.
So use those four tricks yourself: live chat, commenters,
Twitter, and look for power users. In the next lecture,
we're moving on to step three, which is getting them to talk to us - and it's a very weird dance. Alright, see you then.